Data Acquisition
Import data-- data is loaded into Power BI app(makes report fast and need high performance)
Direct Query: Direct Query models store only meta data info and will query the data source based on the requiremtn(good for realtime data). 
Every visualization sends real time query to a database when a filter is selected in dashboard.No need to schedule dashboard.
Usefully if data volumne is very high and can't be loaded in a powerbi app.


-while data model is huge , user direct query
-real time scenario
- No data is loaded to memory of power BI
-Data source resources are flexible with adhoc traffic
-while connecting to database(you get an option of direct query)

Dual model: store data both in power bi app and direct query.
Live connection: 
Very Few db support live connection
Power BI dataset support it(only through live connection)
Power BI datasets are live, any changes will immideatly be seen in the dashboard

WriteBack capability

Data Flow: ETL(Is performed throw power query in cloud). Its a good way to seperate ETL layer with data and Reporting layer. This can be used without power bi application as well
helps in decoupling of data preperation layer from power bi reporting layer. What data flow does not support is modelling part of data which is done by dataset.

Dataset: Build relationship between tables, Hierarchies. DAX calculation and field formating and configuration is done by dataset.
Dataset can be shared in that way it can be reused by multiple reporting layer.

Think Power BI report- These reports donot have a dataset by itself. Like normaly when you publish a power it publishes both dataset and visualization in same app.
Thin reports does not have a dataset and leverage an existing dataset from server. These reports can have live connections with PBI shared datsets

Decoupling these layers means you are reusing components rather than recreating them

Start vs Snowflake Schema:
in start , dimentions are only connected to fact tables. In snowflag, dimention table are also connected to other dimension tables(mainly sub dimnetions)

We can seperate different components on Power BI - DataFlow, Dataset and Reporting for reuse.

Real Time vs live datasets

Real time/streaming dashboard means when data is pushed from bottom up - from database to the dashboard as soon as a new entry is added into the db
Live/Direct Query: This is a top down data refresh. User request the data to be refreshed through a refresh button or selecting a filter.
New data is not automatically seen in the dashoard unless user refresh the dashboard or passes some kind of command to refresh it.


************DAX*************

Context:
Row Context: 
Calculation is performened for each and every row.All calcuated columns are using row context.
Row context is passed across table by utilizing relationship between 2 tables.

for calcualted columns -if we want to use 2 columns from 2 different tables in same formula , we need to use related function. Does not apply to Measure.

Filter context: under what consideration a value is being evaluated. for eg if in a sheet we have uplied a filter and a sugsection. then aggregation
is only performed on the active filter.




